>> Kevin Powell: All right, so we finished
that feature, it's completely working,
but we've been on another
branch up until now.
And that means that our code's
not live on our website yet, or
anything like that even if we commit
those changes, we're not gonna see them.
So we need to commit these changes to the
branch that we are working on, and then we
need to merge this Branch with our main
branch now that everything is working.
So the first thing we'll
do is commit those changes,
so I can come here and
say functional hamburger menu, or
added hamburger menu functionality,
put in what you want.
I'm gonna click the + to
stage those changes, and
I'm going to commit those
changes right there.
And we can also sync the changes,
so those changes are in GitHub.
But if you haven't done anything with
version control or branching before,
as I've mentioned,
this is all on our hamburger menu branch.
If I switch back now and
look at my main branch, you're gonna
notice the hamburger menu disappears.
We have two separate branches of code
right now, so our hamburger menu is only
living in that hamburger menu branch, our
main branch doesn't see those changes yet.
And you can change between
the two of them down here, and
then just select the one that you want.
Be really careful if you're actively
working on a branch and then you go
back to main cuz if you haven't
committed those changes that you made,
it'll basically think that
your then working on the main.
So if you're in a branch, work from
that branch until you're ready, or
until you've committed
the changes that you've made.
There is a way to merge branches
directly within VS Code, but
I wouldn't really recommend doing it cuz
it's only gonna do it within VS Code and
locally on your machine.
We will have to delete our
Branch from here eventually, but
what we'll actually do next is go over
to GitHub where our project is living,
that was fem, from scratch.
At the top here, I can see this
hamburger menu had one recent push,
1 minute ago,
cuz I just pushed this change over
to GitHub through my
COURCE CONTROL right there.
And I have this option to
compare & pull request.
So if I click that nice big button,
they make very easy to see,
you can see it says, open a pull request.
And the idea here is generally
speaking if you're on a solo project,
it's a little bit different
cuz in the real-world.
You'd open your pull request then
someone else would review it, and
then someone else would probably
be the one merging it in.
We're gonna be doing all of those steps
cuz we're the only one working on our
project.
So you can add a title, it's already gonna
put one there based on the name of it.
So if you wanna change the title, you can,
you can add a description, solo project.
You're probably not gonna be doing a lot
of descriptions, but it could be a really
good habit to come in with a detailed
description of what you did.
So we won't do it too much, but,
added hamburger menu functionality for
small screens.
And then I would even come in
with a bullet list, potentially,
explaining the area hidden and a few of
the other things that are expanded and
a few other things that we did.
If someone else is gonna
be reviewing it so
they know exactly the types of
things you did, why you did them,
a bit of an explanation of
what's happening in the code.
And once you're finished with that,
you can create a pull request.
>> Kevin Powell: You're gonna get this
checking for availability to merge,
you shouldn't run into any issues unless
you've done something on your main
in the meantime.
If you're doing solo things,
you're just creating one branch at a time,
you probably won't run into any conflicts.
But if you're working in teams,
there's potential that there's been other
merges that have happened in the meantime,
and there's conflicting code,
that's a whole other story.
Frontend Masters has a course on Git
that probably has a lot more information
on that if you're interested
in learning more about it.
You'll also notice, as I was talking
there, the screen changed a little
bit just because we are on Netlify,
so GitHub did some initial checks.
And then Netlify actually did a little bit
more here at the same time cuz it built
the site, [LAUGH] or
it made a preview of the deploy.
And what that means is you can actually
before you pull it into your main branch,
you could go to the Netlify,
it's gonna have a random address.
But you can check that
everything is working online,
it'll have its own domain name,
everything is there.
And you can preview it to make sure
everything is working before you actually
pull it into the main code if you want to,
and you can see that is right here.
Or if I click on that link, we have,
no, okay, that brought me here, and
then here I can do, Open deploy preview,
and it's going to be deploy-preview-1,
and so it has its own domain name,
and this is the live version.
Now, part of my main site yet, but it's
a nice thing with Netlify that you get
to preview it live before you pull it in
to make sure nothing broke along the way.
So I can close those down,
I know everything is good,
I can come all the way down, and
then I can finally, merge pull request.
They wanna make sure that you're being
very careful, so then I can Confirm merge
right there, and it will merge in, pull
request successfully merged and closed.
Last thing here is it's gonna give
you the option to Delete the Branch,
it's very safe to delete at this stage,
if you ever need to reopen it for whatever
reason, there's ways you can do that.
We're just gonna click on Delete branch
cuz we don't need it here anymore.
This is deleting the Branch from GitHub,
though, it's not doing anything
on your local computer.
So locally, if we come and
take a look, it's kind of interesting,
cuz when our SOURCE CONTROL updates, or,
sorry, I'm gonna click on this bottom
part, you might already have it open,
but the SOURCE CONTROL Graph.
And here we should get the,
I'm still in my hamburger menu,
I'm gonna go back to my main branch.
And if I go in my main,
you can actually see that it's showing us,
can I zoom in on that?
We can make it a bit bigger,
I can see the different
work that was done here,
and let me zoom out again,
there's the handle bar, okay,
let's just go full screen.
So we can see here the different parts,
so here we'd finish page one,
we made the ranch, added the hamburger.
These are the different
steps along the way,
when we were making commits
along the way on that branch.
And then we can see that that branch
got pulled into the main thing,
so it gives us a little bit of
a visualization of what's happened.
So then I can now sync my changes, so it's
gonna pull the changes that are on GitHub
back into my computer cuz these changes
were part of the hamburger menu.
Branch locally, they're not locally
part of my main Branch yet.
So going back to my main branch, I want
to sync those changes back into here, and
I can see the colors are all blue.
If it's purple, it means it's
online on GitHub, if it's blue,
it's also local on your machine.
And you get the little visualizations
here showing you that as well.
So we've merged our pull request number
one from your name and all of that, and
everything is good to go.
You will still have your hamburger branch
here, it's gonna stay local on your
computer, you could leave it if you wanted
to, it probably won't cause any issues.
But if you do wanna clean it up,
you can do, git,
I did the wrong thing, it's control,
can we do it through here?
I wonder, if I choose that Branch and
I go to the menu Branch,
there we go, you can.
So as long as the hamburger menu is the
active branch, we can go in the GitHub,
the SOURCE CONTROL menu, go to Branch,
and then you can just Delete the branch.
Make sure you're not in
the hamburger menu, I do apologize.
From your main branch, you can go into,
>> Kevin Powell: This SOURCE CONTROL menu,
go to your branches, and
then you can Delete a branch.
You can't delete the branch
that you're actively on,
you can only delete other branches,
which makes sense.
So Delete Branch,
which one do we wanna delete, and
we can delete our
hamburger menu from there.
And now that feature is done, and
we are good to continue going.